---
layout: post
title: "March 2020 update"
description: ""
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### GeoCAT releases

The GeoCAT team is busy migrating NCL functions into the Python ecosystem. At present about a dozen function families have been re-implemented, documented, validated, and provided with extensive examples.[^1]

[^1]: Note, because of shortcomings in the NCL language many closely related operations were implemented as separate NCL functions. For example, the NCL linint2, linint2_n, linint2_Wrap, and linint2_n_Wrap functions all perform 2D linear interpolation, but handle different edge cases. In GeoCAT, only a single linint2 function exists, but it combines the capabilities of all four NCL versions. Hence, we refer to the GeoCAT/Python linint2 function as a “family of functions”.  

The GeoCAT team is employing a “continuous release” model. This means that new versions of the software are available on a frequent (e.g. weekly) basis. Hence, almost as soon as a new capability is completed it becomes available for download and use. This means that the user community doesn’t have to wait for months for the next stamped x.y version of the software, and developers can quickly get feedback from the community and make adjustments as necessary.

The best way to find the list of currently available functions is to simply look at the documentation page here: [User API — geocat.comp 0.1a documentation](https://geocat-comp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_api/index.html). This web page also provides information on how to easily download and install the current GeoCAT snapshot. 

Our plans still call for stamped or stability release at about the same cadence as with NCL: roughly every year. We’re currently working toward the version 1.0 release of GeoCAT. The best way to get information about the status of a stability release is through one of the GeoCAT project boards. 

### Project boards
One of the ways that we communicate progress and plans is through the use of GitHub project boards, which can provide a dynamic roadmap for development plans. If you visit [this link](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-comp/projects) you’ll see project boards (roadmaps) for the 1.0 and 1.1 releases of GeoCAT. Clicking on either one of these individual boards will show the status of all the functions planned for that release in various stages from not-started, to in-progress, to complete. Functions that are marked as “complete” should be available for use. Drilling down even further into the “card” for a specific function family will show the GitHub “issue” with details about the function such as what it does, and any discussion between the development team and/or the user community. You are encouraged to give your own input, or ask a question, on any of the *issues*.

### Open development
The GeoCAT team is fully embracing an Open Development model. Most everyone is familiar with the concept of Open Source: software that is licensed in such a way to permit modification, reuse, redistribution etc. Open Development permits all of these things but also both facilitates and encourages community engagement in numerous areas of the project such as:

* Helping set priorities
* Providing feedback on capabilities (or any other aspect of the project)
* Answering support questions
* Organizing training
* Creating examples
* Developing new functionality

The GeoCAT team welcomes your involvement in all of these areas! Please consider joining the growing list of Open Development contributors by: 

* Commenting on a GitHub issue under one of our repositories [here](https://geocat.ucar.edu/pages/software.html). Even a thumbs up (or down) helps us assess the importance of an “issue”. 
* Adding a new plotting example to the [GeoCAT plotting gallery](https://geocat-examples.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
* Installing and evaluating the current release of the [GeoCAT computational functions](https://geocat-comp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) or adding additional [examples](https://geocat-comp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples.html).
* Adding a comment or a question to this blog
* Contributing a function for inclusion in the GeoCAT library (Contributor’s guide coming soon!!!)

### Tell your students!
Are your students looking for experience with Python programming? Are they interested in learning about GitHub and Open Development, or Jupyter Notebooks? Do they want to make a contribution to a community effort? We have lots of projects suitable for students of all programming ability levels. We’re also developing on-line training materials for using all of the aforementioned technologies and more. We’d love to hear from your students. Just leave us a comment on this blog. Thanks!

