---
layout: post
title: "May 2021 Update"
description: ""
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Dear GeoCAT Community,

Our team would like to share May, 2021 update 
about GeoCAT releases and community activities below:  

### Software Releases

#### - GeoCAT-comp v2021.05.0 and v2021.05.1 Released!
With these releases, new functions such as Fourier smoothing, atmospheric
moisture calculations, and heat index have been made available.

- Please see
  [GeoCAT-comp v2021.05.1 Release](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-comp/releases/tag/v2021.05.1)
  for further information about Release and Developer Notes.
- Refer to
  [GeoCAT-comp API reference](https://geocat-comp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html)
  for detailed information about the GeoCAT-comp functions.

#### - GeoCAT-f2py v2021.05.0 and v2021.05.1 Released!
With these releases, Numpy versioning has been updated and documentation has been improved.

- Please see 
[GeoCAT-f2py v2021.05.1 Release](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-f2py/releases/tag/v2021.05.1)
for further information about Release and Developer Notes.

- Please see our 
[Contributor's Guide](https://geocat.ucar.edu/pages/contributing.html) 
for detailed information about our development stack. 

### Community Events

In addition to our regular development activities, many GeoCAT team members  
attended the Dask Distributed Summit between May 19th - 21st, 2021.

NCAR's SIParCS 2021 internship program officially started on May 17th, and the
GeoCAT team is happy to host three outstanding interns (Erin Lincoln, Jiaqi Li, 
Rose Craker) within two GeoCAT projects.

As always we look forward to hearing your thoughts on our efforts.

The GeoCAT Team - CISL/NCAR
