---
layout: post
title: "July 2021 Update"
description: ""
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Dear GeoCAT Community,

Our team would like to share July, 2021 update 
about GeoCAT releases and community activities below:  

### Software Releases

#### - GeoCAT-comp v2021.07.0 and v2021.07.1 Released!
With these releases, new functions such as `calender_average` and `climatology_average`
under the `climatologies` module have been made available; improvements to Dask compatibility 
on several functions such as `dewtemp`, `heat_index`, and `relhum` function family have been
performed; a few bug fixes have been addressed; some codes have been refactored for improved
readability; and internal API documentation have been improved.

- Please see
  [GeoCAT-comp v2021.07.0 Release](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-comp/releases/tag/v2021.07.0)
  and [GeoCAT-comp v2021.07.1 Release](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-comp/releases/tag/v2021.07.1)
  for further information about Release and Developer Notes.
- Refer to
  [GeoCAT-comp API reference](https://geocat-comp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html)
  for detailed information about the GeoCAT-comp functions.

- Please see our 
[Contributor's Guide](https://geocat.ucar.edu/pages/contributing.html) 
for detailed information about our development stack. 

### Community Events

In addition to our regular development activities, the GeoCAT team engaged
with the community through a few virtual events in July.

#### - SIParCS 2021
NCAR's SIParCS 2021 internship program ended on July 30th. The
GeoCAT team thanks to our three interns (Erin Lincoln, Jiaqi Li, Rose Craker) 
for their outstanding contributions within two GeoCAT projects.

Note: Jiaqi Li's internship ended two weeks later than regular SIParCS end on 
August 13th.

#### - SIParCS 2021 Extensions - CISL Visitor Program
The GeoCAT team is delighted to announce that two of our SIParCS 2021 interns,
Erin Lincoln and Heather Craker, have been hired as CISL Visiting Scholars as an 
extension of SIParCS 2021 through CISL Visitor Program. Erin will work with GeoCAT
through December 10, 2021; and Heather will work with GeoCAT through April 30, 2022. 
Both Erin and Heather will be working remotely on a 10 hours/week basis during this 
period.

As always we look forward to hearing your thoughts on our efforts.

The GeoCAT Team - CISL/NCAR
