---
layout: post
title: "July 2022 Quarterly Update"
description: ""
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Dear GeoCAT Community,

Please find below our updates for April, May, and June, 2022, including 
team updates, developments, and community activities, since the last 
quarterly update we made in early April:  


### Project Raijin

The collaboration between [Project Raijin](https://raijin.ucar.edu/) and 
DOE's SEATS project has released the first official version, 
[v2022.06.0](https://github.com/UXARRAY/uxarray/releases/tag/v.2022.6.0), of 
the [UXarray](https://uxarray.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) package. 
Please see its [Conda distribution](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/uxarray)
page as well.

Other than the release, there are other insights about the Project Raijin and 
UXarray that we'd like to share:

#### UXarray Discussions

Having input and feedback from our community is vital for the success of the 
UXarray package (so Project Raijin). We encourage our community members to share 
their feedback with us and give input to the UXarray project lifecycle. In 
accordance with this, we created a Github Discussion, [Prioritization of Uxarray 
analysis operators](https://github.com/UXARRAY/uxarray/discussions/46), to listen 
to our community's priorities with the data analysis functions to be implemented. 
The discussion has received a lot of feedback and led to conversation between 
community members. We are looking forward to implementing such functions as well as to keep 

discussing with the community in the future.

#### How to contact us

If you would like to engage with Project Raijin and/or UXarray but are not
100% sure how, please see our
[Contact Us](https://raijin.ucar.edu/contact.html) page!


### GeoCAT Software Releases

We started to distribute the GeoCAT toolkits (GeoCAT-comp, GeoCAT-f2py, 
GeoCAT-datafiles, and GeoCAT-viz) on conda-forge channel in this quarter. 
Currently, we continue to distribute them via NCAR's Anaconda channel, too, but 
our plan is to use only the conda-forge channel.

Below you can find updates about our releases on several toolkits:

#### - GeoCAT-comp and GeoCAT-f2py April Releases (v2022.04.0)!
With these releases, there were some fixes such as ensuring input 
to output data type consistency, and some continuous integration improvements
such as clarifying installation & updating instruction, and version update for 
some dependencies.

- Please see
  [GeoCAT-comp Releases](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-comp/releases)
  for further information.

- Please see
  [GeoCAT-f2py Releases](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-f2py/releases)
  for further information.

- In addition, please refer to
  [GeoCAT-comp API reference](https://geocat-comp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html)
  for detailed information about the GeoCAT-comp functions and how GeoCAT-f2py
  is contained under GeoCAT-comp.

#### - GeoCAT-viz April and May Releases (v2022.04.0 and v2022.05.0)!
GeoCAT-viz has gone under a huge but backwards-compatible structural change 
in [v2022.04.0](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-viz/releases/tag/v2022.04.0) 
and [v2022.05.0](https://github.com/NCAR/geocat-viz/releases/tag/v2022.05.0)
that also introduces several new functionalities! One of the major new 

functionalities is the capability to plot Taylor diagrams through a class 
with the same name. The structural changes include moving the Contour plot 
functionalities into a new class, Contour, which also enables tuning many 
Contour plot-related arguments at the time of initiation. This helps the user 
avoid setting those arguments by calling several functions separately, thus 
reducing the number of lines of code significantly.


- As always, please see our  
[Contributor's Guide](https://geocat.ucar.edu/pages/contributing.html) 
for detailed information about our development stack.


### Welcome aboard, Heather Craker!

As we announced before in the April quarterly update, Heather Craker started to 
work with us as a fulltime “Software Engineer I - Scientific Python Developer”.
on June 13, 2022. Congratulations, Heather!


### Community Events

The GeoCAT team engaged with the community through 
several activities during this past quarter:

#### Project Pythia Hackathon

NCAR/VAST organized and hosted a hybrid hackathon for [Project 
Pythia](https://projectpythia.org/) between June 27-29. There were about a dozen 
in-person attendees and half a dozen remote. Several members of the GeoCAT team 
along with other teams (e.g. Xdev) participated and helped with the organization.

#### Project Raijin at EarthCube's Annual Meeting

Orhan Eroglu presented Project Raijin at the EarthCube annual meeting in San 
Diego, CA with a poster and a lightning talk. The event was held between
June 14-16, 2022.

#### AMS Early Career Leadership Academy

Michaela Sizemore participated in the in-person meeting of American Meteorological 
Society (AMS) Early Career Leadership Academy (ECLA) in Kansas City, MO. She had 
also been participating its virtual meetings for several weeks this Spring.

#### GeoCAT presentation at NCAR/MMM's Annual WRF/MPAS Workshop

Orhan Eroglu gave a talk about GeoCAT's unstructured grids research, MPAS 
analysis and visualization efforts, and Project Raijin at the annual WRF/MPAS 
workshop of NCAR/MMM on June 6, 2022.

#### SIParCS 2022 (Summer Internship Projects)

GeoCAT's SIParCS 2022 projects have been going very well so far this summer. 
We will share the outcomes, likely in the next quarter updates, but please 
refer to the previous quarter's blog for more details about who is working on 
what.

As always, we welcome and appreciate any level of community contribution to 
this effort by giving feedback, reporting issues, joining us for implementation,
etc.

The GeoCAT Team - CISL/NCAR
July 7, 2022 
